Extract colspan from components as well (#539)
ocaml/v3.ocaml.org: data/tutorials/gs_00_up_and_running.md

# Get Up and Running With OCaml

This page will walk you through the installation of OCaml and the Dune build system, as well as offer support for your favourite text editor or IDE. These instructions work on Windows and Unix-based systems like Linux and macOS.

> **Guidelines for following instructions on this page**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Guidelines for Following Instructions on this Page**
```
Title case to match the other subheaders.

> A **shell** is a program you can run that will let you enter commands in a text windows using only your keyboard. When this page asks you to enter commands in your shell:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **shell** is a program that will let you enter commands in a text windows using only your keyboard. It's also known as a command line interface (CLI). When this page asks you to enter commands in your shell, use the following instructions for your system:
```

> * On macOS you will run the `Terminal` app to start a shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On macOS, you will run the `Terminal` app to start a shell.
```

> * On Windows, you can start PowerShell by pressing the Windows key (`⊞`), typing "PowerShell" and then clicking Open `Windows PowerShell`. There is an older shell called "Command Prompt" you can use as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On Windows, you can start PowerShell by pressing the Windows key (`⊞`), typing "PowerShell" and then clicking Open `Windows PowerShell`. There is an older shell called "Command Prompt" you can use as well.
```

> * On Linux you are already familiar with a shell (typically bash or zsh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On Linux, you are already familiar with a shell (typically bash or zsh).
```

The code blocks (in black) on this page show the required commands (the text after `#` gives more information on the following commands). Type each command after the prompt `$`, although it's often represented by a `%`, `>`, or another symbol as well. Ensure you use the exact case and spacing shown, then hit return/enter at the end of every line.

## Installing OCaml

> The foundation for installing OCaml and third-party OCaml libraries is [Opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), OCaml's package manager. On Unix-like systems you'll install and manage Opam through the Unix shell; on Windows you'll use a traditional `setup.exe` installer that will install and manage Opam on your behalf. Whether you are on Unix or Windows, you'll end up with OCaml ready for you to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The foundation for installing OCaml and third-party OCaml libraries is [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), OCaml's package manager. On Unix-like systems, you'll install and manage opam through the Unix shell; on Window, you'll use a traditional `setup.exe` installer that will install and manage opam on your behalf. Whether you are on Unix or Windows, you'll end up with OCaml ready for you to use.
```
Thomas confirmed the official name of opam is all lowercase.

Find all the installation instructions for both Unix-like systems and Windows in the sections below:

* Linux or macOS: [Installation for Linux and macOS](#installation-for-linux-and-macos)
* Windows: [Installation for Windows](#installation-for-windows)

### Installation for Linux and macOS

> In the code blocks below, `# Homebrew` indicates the command if you're using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) as the installer, and `# MacPorts` is if you're using [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) to install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the code blocks below, `# Homebrew` indicates the command if you're using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) as the installer, and `# MacPorts` if you're using [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/) to install.
```

The following instructions work on Linux, BSD, and macOS. Plus, they also work on Cygwin and
WSL.

**Guidelines for Following Instructions on this Page**

> A **shell** is a program that will let you enter commands in a text windows using only your keyboard. It's also known as a command line interface (CLI). When this page asks you to enter commands in your shell, use the following instructions for your system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **shell** is a program that will let you enter commands in a text window using only your keyboard. It's also known as a command line interface (CLI). When this page asks you to enter commands in your shell, use the following instructions for your system:
```

It will be "a text window" or "text windows" (without the article "a")

* On macOS you will run the `Terminal` app to start a shell

> * On Windows, you can start PowerShell by pressing the Windows key (`⊞`), typing "PowerShell" and then clicking Open `Windows PowerShell`. There is an older shell called "Command Prompt" you can use as well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On Windows, you can start PowerShell by pressing the Windows key (`⊞`), typing "PowerShell," and then clicking Open `Windows PowerShell`. There is an older shell called "Command Prompt" you can use as well
```

especially useful since different projects might require different versions of
OCaml.

> On Unix the best way to install OCaml is with opam, OCaml's package manager. On Windows the best way is to use a traditional `setup.exe` that will initialise Opam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Unix, the best way to install OCaml is with opam, OCaml's package manager. On Windows, the best way is to use a traditional `setup.exe` that will initialise opam
```

> on your behalf, although today only OCaml version 4.12.1 can be installed with `setup.exe`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on your behalf; however, only OCaml version 4.12.1 can be installed with `setup.exe` now.
```

> [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), the package manager of OCaml, introduces the concept of "switches," consisting of a compiler together with a set of packages (libraries and other files). Switches are used to have independent sets of dependencies in different projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/), OCaml's package manager, introduces the concept of "switches," which is a compiler with a set of packages (libraries and other files). Switches are used to have independent sets of dependencies in different projects.
```

Find all the installation instructions for both Unix-like systems and Windows in the sections below:

> * Linux or macOS: [Installation for Unix including Linux and macOS](#installation-for-unix)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Linux or macOS: [Installation for Unix, including Linux and macOS](#installation-for-unix)
```

**Install Compiler**

> It's essential to install the OCaml compiler because OCaml is a compiled language, so please don't skip this step. The first part sets up Opam, and the second part installs the OCaml base compiler:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's essential to install the OCaml compiler because OCaml is a compiled language, so please don't skip this step. The first part sets up opam, and the second part installs the OCaml base compiler:
```

sh <(curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.sh)
```

### Installation for Windows

> In this section we'll describe using the new [Diskuv OCaml](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml#readme) ("DKML") Windows installer. Expect to see another officially supported Windows installation provided directly by Opam in the coming months; it will be compatible with your DKML installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll describe using the new [Diskuv OCaml](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml#readme) ("DKML") Windows installer. Expect to see another officially-supported Windows installation provided directly by opam in the coming months; it will be compatible with your DKML installation.
```

> Advanced Users: If you are familiar with "Cygwin" or "WSL2", there are other installation methods described on the [OCaml on Windows](/docs/ocaml-on-windows) page.

Before using the DKML installer, briefly review the following:

> * You need to **stay at your computer** and press "Yes" for any Windows security popups;
>   after the DKML installer finishes installing two programs (`Visual Studio Installer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You need to **stay at your computer** and press "Yes" for any Windows security popups. 
After the DKML installer finishes installing two programs (`Visual Studio Installer`
```

  and `Git for Windows`) you can leave your computer for the remaining one (1) hour.

* First time installations may get a notification printed in red. If you see it, reboot your computer and then restart your installation so that Visual Studio Installer can complete. The notification looks like:

  ```diff
  - FATAL [118acf2a]. The machine needs rebooting.
  - ...
  - >>  The machine needs rebooting. <<<
  -         ...
  -         FATAL [5f927a8b].
  -         A transient failure occurred.
  -         ...
  -         >>  A transient failure occurred. <<<
  ```

* You may be asked to accept a certificate from
  `Open Source Developer, Gerardo Grignoli` for the `gsudo` executable
  that was issued by
  `Certum Code Signing CA SHA2`.

> Now go ahead and download and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, download and run:
```

$ bash -c "sh <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.sh)"
```

#### Initialising opam on Unix

> On Unix it's essential to initialise opam, which will (if needed) install the OCaml compiler. If you already have OCaml installed, opam will use that compiler.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Unix, it's essential to initialise opam, which will (if needed) install the OCaml compiler. If you already have OCaml installed, opam will use that compiler.  
```

In case you are not satisfied with the OCaml version of your system switch, you can change the version with `opam switch create <version_here>`. More information can be found on the [official website](https://opam.ocaml.org/).

### Installation for Windows

In this section, we'll describe using the new [Diskuv OCaml](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml#readme) ("DKML") Windows installer. Expect to see another officially-supported Windows installation provided directly by opam in the coming months; it will be compatible with your DKML installation.

> > Advanced Users: If you are familiar with "Cygwin" or "WSL2", there are other installation methods described on the [OCaml on Windows](/docs/ocaml-on-windows) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Advanced Users: If you are familiar with Cygwin or WSL2, there are other installation methods described on the [OCaml on Windows](/docs/ocaml-on-windows) page.
```

Since there weren't quotes around these at the top of this document, I removed them here.

Before using the DKML installer, briefly review the following:

* You need to **stay at your computer** and press "Yes" for any Windows security popups. 
After the DKML installer finishes installing two programs (`Visual Studio Installer`

>   and `Git for Windows`) you can leave your computer for the remaining two (2) hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and `Git for Windows`), you can leave your computer for the remaining two (2) hours.
```

* First time installations may get a notification printed in red. If you see it, reboot your computer and then restart your installation so that Visual Studio Installer can complete. The notification looks like:

  ```diff
  - FATAL [118acf2a]. The machine needs rebooting.
  - ...
  - >>  The machine needs rebooting. <<<
  -         ...
  -         FATAL [5f927a8b].
  -         A transient failure occurred.
  -         ...
  -         >>  A transient failure occurred. <<<
  ```

* You may be asked to accept a certificate from
  `Open Source Developer, Gerardo Grignoli` for the `gsudo` executable
  that was issued by
  `Certum Code Signing CA SHA2`.

Now, download and run:

> * OCaml 4.12.1 with Git and Visual Studio compiler: [setup-diskuv-ocaml-windows_x86_64-1.0.0.exe](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml/releases/download/v1.0.0/setup-diskuv-ocaml-windows_x86_64-1.0.0.exe)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* OCaml 4.12.1 with Git and Visual Studio compiler: [setup-diskuv-ocaml-windows_x86_64-1.0.1.exe](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml/releases/download/v1.0.1/setup-diskuv-ocaml-windows_x86_64-1.0.1.exe)
```

When we change our program, we can type `dune build` again to make a new
executable. To run the program, we can use:

```console
$ dune exec ./bin/main.exe
Hello, World!
```

Or, alternatively,

```console
$ dune exec helloworld
Hello, World!
```

Let's look at the contents of our new directory.

* On macOS and Linux use the directory listing command (`ls`):

  ```console
  $ ls
  bin  _build  dune-project  helloworld.opam  lib  test
  ```
* On Windows use the directory listing command (`dir`):

  ```console
  $ dir
      Directory: C:\source\helloworld

  Mode                 LastWriteTime         Length Name
  ----                 -------------         ------ ----
  d-----          8/8/2022  12:18 PM                bin
  d-----          8/8/2022  12:18 PM                lib
  d-----          8/8/2022  12:18 PM                test
  d-----          8/8/2022  12:18 PM                _build
  -a----          8/8/2022  12:18 PM             36 dune-project
  -a----          8/8/2022  12:18 PM              0 helloworld.opam
  ```

> All the build outputs generated by dune go in the `_build` directory. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the build outputs generated by Dune go in the `_build` directory. The
```

All these tools can be installed in your current switch (remember that opam groups installed packages in independent switches) using the following command:

```shell
# Unix
$ opam install dune merlin ocaml-lsp-server odoc ocamlformat utop dune-release

# Windows (currently dune-release is not available from Diskuv OCaml)
$ opam install dune merlin ocaml-lsp-server odoc ocamlformat utop
```

Now that the tools are installed, it remains to understand how to use them. Most of them will be driven either by the editor or by Dune, but UTop is handy to try OCaml or a specific library.

## Using the OCaml Toplevel with UTop

> OCaml comes with two additional compilers: one compiles to **native code** (sometimes called machine code or executable binary), directly read by the CPU, and the other compiles to **bytecode**, creating an executable that can be interpreted by a variety of runtime environments, making more flexible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OCaml comes with two additional compilers: one compiles to **native code** (sometimes called machine code or executable binary), directly read by the CPU, and the other compiles to **bytecode**, creating an executable that can be interpreted by a variety of runtime environments, making more it flexible.
```

![Visual Studio Code](/media/tutorials/vscode.png)

**For Windows**
1. If you used the Diskuv OCaml (DKML) installer you will need to:
   1. Go to `File` > `Preferences` > `Settings` view (or press `Ctrl ,`)
   2. Select `User` > `Extensions` > `OCaml Platform`
   3. **Uncheck** `OCaml: Use OCaml Env`. That's it!

> **For Vim and Emacs** we won't use the LSP server but rather directly talk to Merlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For Vim and Emacs**, we won't use the LSP server but rather directly talk to Merlin.
```

When we change our program, we can type `dune build` again to make a new
executable. To run the program, we can use:

```
$ dune exec ./bin/main.exe
Hello, World!
```

Or, alternatively,

```
$ dune exec helloworld
Hello, World!
```

Let's look at the contents of our new directory.

> * On macOS and Linux use the directory listing command (`ls`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On macOS and Linux, use the directory listing command (`ls`):
```

  ```shell
  $ ls
  bin  _build  dune-project  helloworld.opam  lib  test
  ```

> * On Windows use the directory listing command (`dir`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On Windows, use the directory listing command (`dir`):
```
